README.md, before:

# Analysing reports of events involving automated vehicles with LLM model


## Overview
![LLM Personas](figures/LLMs_personas.png)
A Ghibli-style persona illustration of the Large Language Models.😁

## Usage of the code
The code is open-source and free to use. It is aimed for, but not limited to, academic research. We welcome forking of this repository, pull requests, and any contributions in the spirit of open science and open-source code 😍😄 .
For collaboration or inquiries, contact:

- Md Shadab Alam: [md_shadab_alam@outlook.com](mailto:md_shadab_alam@outlook.com)  
- Pavlo Bazilinskyy: [pavlo.bazilinskyy@gmail.com](mailto:pavlo.bazilinskyy@gmail.com)


# Getting Started
Tested with Python 3.9.21. To setup the environment run these two commands in a parent folder of the downloaded repository (replace `/` with `\` and possibly add `--user` if on Windows:

**Step 1:**

Clone the repository
```command line
git clone https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced
```

**Step 2:**

Create a new virtual environment using the .yml file
```command line
conda env create -f environment.yml
```
This will create a new conda environment with all the dependencies specified in the file.


**Step 3:**

Activate the virtual environment
```command line
conda activate myenv
```


**Step 4:**

Download the supplementary material from [4TU Research Data](xxxx) and save them in the current folder.

**Step 5:**
Download Ollama locally in your system and run it. [Link](https://ollama.com/)

**Step 6:**
Run the main.py script for analysing the images.
```command line
python3 main.py
```

**Step 7:**
Run the analysis.py script for getting the comaprison of the LLMs output and the crowdsourced results.
```command line
python3 analysis.py
```


### Configuration of project

Configuration of the project needs to be defined in `llms-av-crowdsourced/config`. Please use the `default.config` file for the required structure. If no custom config file is provided, `default.config` is used. The config file has the following parameters:

- **data** [String]: Specifies the directory where your image files are stored (e.g., `"data"`).
- **output** [String]: Directory path where model outputs will be saved (e.g., `"_output"`).
- **font_family** [String]: Lists the font families to be used in visualisation outputs (e.g., `"Open Sans, verdana, arial, sans-serif"`).
- **font_size** [Integer]: Sets the base font size for graphs and other visual elements (e.g., `12`).
- **random_seed** [List of Integers]: A list of seed values for reproducible runs (e.g., `[42]`).
- **use_history** [Boolean]: Determines whether conversation history is maintained and utilised during processing. When `true`, previous interactions are stored and influence current model responses.
- **true_history_files** [Boolean]: Controls whether history files (conversation logs and memory) are retained after processing. If set to `false`, these files are deleted after processing.
- **max_memory_messages** [Integer]: Specifies the maximum number of previous conversation messages to retain in memory for context (e.g., `6`).
- **temperature** [Float]: Adjusts the randomness of the model's response generation. Lower values produce more deterministic outputs, while higher values introduce variability (e.g., `0.8`).
- **plotly_template** [String]: Determines the styling template used for graphs and visualisations (e.g., `"plotly_white"`).
- **logger_level** [String]: Sets the logging level (e.g., `"info"` or `"debug"`) to control the verbosity of runtime messages.
- **model_names** [List of Strings]: A list of model identifiers that the system will sequentially use to process images (e.g., `["gemma"]`).
- **base_prompt** [String]: Provides the initial context for the model, setting the stage for how it should interpret its task (e.g., describing the user's perspective as a pedestrian).
- **history_intro** [String]: Contains introductory text that precedes the conversation history, informing the model how previous responses may influence its current decision-making.
- **current_image_instruction** [String]: Offers specific instructions for interpreting the current image, guiding the model on how to generate its response.
- **prompt** [String]: The main directive provided to the model for evaluating the image. This prompt instructs the model to first interpret the meaning of any digital display, then provide a confidence rating in this format:  
  `"Confidence: [numeric value]. Meaning: [briefly explain]"`


## Results

### Without utilising the past history

[![Response from BakLLaVA vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_bakllava_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_bakllava_without_memory.html)  
**How BakLLaVA interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from Gemma3 12B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:12b_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:12b_without_memory.html)  
**How Gemma3 12B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from Gemma3 27B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:27b_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:27b_without_memory.html)  
**How Gemma3 27B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from Granite3.2 Vision vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_granite3.2-vision_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_granite3.2-vision_without_memory.html)  
**How Granite3.2 Vision interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaMA3.2 Vision vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llama3.2-vision_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llama3.2-vision_without_memory.html)  
**How LLaMA3.2 Vision interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA-LLaMA3 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava-llama3_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava-llama3_without_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA-LLaMA3 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA-Phi3 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava-phi3_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava-phi3_without_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA-Phi3 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA 13B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava:13b_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava:13b_without_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA 13B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA 34B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava:34b_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava:34b_without_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA 34B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from MiniCPM-V vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_minicpm-v_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_minicpm-v_without_memory.html)  
**How MiniCPM-V interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from MoonDream vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_moondream_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_moondream_without_memory.html)  
**How MoonDream interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from DeepSeek VL2 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_deepseek-vl2_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_deepseek-vl2_without_memory.html)  
**How DeepSeek VL2 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from all LLMs vs crowdsourcing results](figures/merged_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/merged_without_memory.html)  
**How all LLMs compare collectively to human responses – without memory context**

---

[![Correlation Matrix](figures/spearman_correlation_matrix_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/spearman_correlation_matrix_without_memory.html)  
**Correlation matrix of all models' responses compared to human data – without memory context**


### Utilising the past history

[![Response from BakLLaVA vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_bakllava_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_bakllava_with_memory.html)  
**How BakLLaVA interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from Gemma3 12B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:12b_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:12b_with_memory.html)  
**How Gemma3 12B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from Gemma3 27B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:27b_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:27b_with_memory.html)  
**How Gemma3 27B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from Granite3.2 Vision vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_granite3.2-vision_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_granite3.2-vision_with_memory.html)  
**How Granite3.2 Vision interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaMA3.2 Vision vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llama3.2-vision_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llama3.2-vision_with_memory.html)  
**How LLaMA3.2 Vision interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA-LLaMA3 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava-llama3_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava-llama3_with_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA-LLaMA3 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA-Phi3 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava-phi3_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava-phi3_with_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA-Phi3 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA 13B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava:13b_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava:13b_with_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA 13B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA 34B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava:34b_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava:34b_with_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA 34B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from MiniCPM-V vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_minicpm-v_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_minicpm-v_with_memory.html)  
**How MiniCPM-V interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from MoonDream vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_moondream_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_moondream_with_memory.html)  
**How MoonDream interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from DeepSeek VL2 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_deepseek-vl2_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_deepseek-vl2_with_memory.html)  
**How DeepSeek VL2 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from all LLMs vs crowdsourcing results](figures/merged_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/merged_with_memory.html)  
**How all LLMs compare collectively to human responses – with memory context**

---

[![Correlation Matrix](figures/spearman_correlation_matrix_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/spearman_correlation_matrix_with_memory.html)  
**Correlation matrix of all models' responses compared to human data – with memory context**


## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

update the figures with final figures
This update contains many changes:
1. Create a new directory for crowdsourcing directory which can accessed through config file.
2. Create a new directory for saving final figures which can accessed through config file.
3. Update of the figures on the final data.
4. Changed the doc-strings from American to British English.

README.md, after:

# Analysing reports of events involving automated vehicles with LLM model


## Overview
![LLM Personas](figures/LLMs_personas.png)
A Ghibli-style persona illustration of the Large Language Models.😁

## Usage of the code
The code is open-source and free to use. It is aimed for, but not limited to, academic research. We welcome forking of this repository, pull requests, and any contributions in the spirit of open science and open-source code 😍😄 .
For collaboration or inquiries, contact:

- Md Shadab Alam: [md_shadab_alam@outlook.com](mailto:md_shadab_alam@outlook.com)  
- Pavlo Bazilinskyy: [pavlo.bazilinskyy@gmail.com](mailto:pavlo.bazilinskyy@gmail.com)


# Getting Started
Tested with Python 3.9.21. To setup the environment run these two commands in a parent folder of the downloaded repository (replace `/` with `\` and possibly add `--user` if on Windows:

**Step 1:**

Clone the repository
```command line
git clone https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced
```

**Step 2:**

Create a new virtual environment using the .yml file
```command line
conda env create -f environment.yml
```
This will create a new conda environment with all the dependencies specified in the file.


**Step 3:**

Activate the virtual environment
```command line
conda activate myenv
```


**Step 4:**

Download the supplementary material from [4TU Research Data](xxxx) and save them in the current folder.

**Step 5:**
Download Ollama locally in your system and run it. [Link](https://ollama.com/)

**Step 6:**
Run the main.py script for analysing the images.
```command line
python3 main.py
```

**Step 7:**
Run the analysis.py script for getting the comaprison of the LLMs output and the crowdsourced results.
```command line
python3 analysis.py
```


### Configuration of project

Configuration of the project needs to be defined in `llms-av-crowdsourced/config`. Please use the `default.config` file for the required structure. If no custom config file is provided, `default.config` is used. The config file has the following parameters:

- **data** [String]: Specifies the directory where your image files are stored.
- **output** [String]: Directory path where model outputs will be saved.
- **crowdsourced_data** [String]: Specifies the directory path where crowdsourcing results are present.
- **figures** [String]: Directory path to save final figures.
- **font_family** [String]: Lists the font families to be used in visualisation outputs (e.g., `"Open Sans, verdana, arial, sans-serif"`).
- **font_size** [Integer]: Sets the base font size for graphs and other visual elements (e.g., `12`).
- **random_seed** [List of Integers]: A list of seed values for reproducible runs (e.g., `[42]`).
- **use_history** [Boolean]: Determines whether conversation history is maintained and utilised during processing. When `true`, previous interactions are stored and influence current model responses.
- **true_history_files** [Boolean]: Controls whether history files (conversation logs and memory) are retained after processing. If set to `false`, these files are deleted after processing.
- **max_memory_messages** [Integer]: Specifies the maximum number of previous conversation messages to retain in memory for context (e.g., `6`).
- **temperature** [Float]: Adjusts the randomness of the model's response generation. Lower values produce more deterministic outputs, while higher values introduce variability (e.g., `0.8`).
- **plotly_template** [String]: Determines the styling template used for graphs and visualisations (e.g., `"plotly_white"`).
- **logger_level** [String]: Sets the logging level (e.g., `"info"` or `"debug"`) to control the verbosity of runtime messages.
- **model_names** [List of Strings]: A list of model identifiers that the system will sequentially use to process images (e.g., `["gemma"]`).
- **base_prompt** [String]: Provides the initial context for the model, setting the stage for how it should interpret its task (e.g., describing the user's perspective as a pedestrian).
- **history_intro** [String]: Contains introductory text that precedes the conversation history, informing the model how previous responses may influence its current decision-making.
- **current_image_instruction** [String]: Offers specific instructions for interpreting the current image, guiding the model on how to generate its response.
- **prompt** [String]: The main directive provided to the model for evaluating the image. This prompt instructs the model to first interpret the meaning of any digital display, then provide a confidence rating in this format:  
  `"Confidence: [numeric value]. Meaning: [briefly explain]"`


## Results

### Without utilising the past history

[![Response from BakLLaVA vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_bakllava_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_bakllava_without_memory.html)  
**How BakLLaVA interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from Gemma3 12B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:12b_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:12b_without_memory.html)  
**How Gemma3 12B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from Gemma3 27B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:27b_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:27b_without_memory.html)  
**How Gemma3 27B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from Granite3.2 Vision vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_granite3.2-vision_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_granite3.2-vision_without_memory.html)  
**How Granite3.2 Vision interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaMA3.2 Vision vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llama3.2-vision_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llama3.2-vision_without_memory.html)  
**How LLaMA3.2 Vision interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA-LLaMA3 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava-llama3_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava-llama3_without_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA-LLaMA3 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA-Phi3 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava-phi3_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava-phi3_without_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA-Phi3 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA 13B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava:13b_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava:13b_without_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA 13B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA 34B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava:34b_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava:34b_without_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA 34B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from MiniCPM-V vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_minicpm-v_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_minicpm-v_without_memory.html)  
**How MiniCPM-V interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from MoonDream vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_moondream_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_moondream_without_memory.html)  
**How MoonDream interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from DeepSeek VL2 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_deepseek-vl2_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_deepseek-vl2_without_memory.html)  
**How DeepSeek VL2 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – without memory context**

---

[![Response from all LLMs vs crowdsourcing results](figures/merged_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/merged_without_memory.html)  
**How all LLMs compare collectively to human responses – without memory context**

---

[![Correlation Matrix](figures/spearman_correlation_matrix_without_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/spearman_correlation_matrix_without_memory.html)  
**Correlation matrix of all models' responses compared to human data – without memory context**


### Utilising the past history

[![Response from BakLLaVA vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_bakllava_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_bakllava_with_memory.html)  
**How BakLLaVA interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from Gemma3 12B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:12b_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:12b_with_memory.html)  
**How Gemma3 12B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from Gemma3 27B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:27b_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_gemma3:27b_with_memory.html)  
**How Gemma3 27B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from Granite3.2 Vision vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_granite3.2-vision_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_granite3.2-vision_with_memory.html)  
**How Granite3.2 Vision interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaMA3.2 Vision vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llama3.2-vision_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llama3.2-vision_with_memory.html)  
**How LLaMA3.2 Vision interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA-LLaMA3 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava-llama3_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava-llama3_with_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA-LLaMA3 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA-Phi3 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava-phi3_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava-phi3_with_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA-Phi3 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA 13B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava:13b_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava:13b_with_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA 13B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from LLaVA 34B vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_llava:34b_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_llava:34b_with_memory.html)  
**How LLaVA 34B interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from MiniCPM-V vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_minicpm-v_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_minicpm-v_with_memory.html)  
**How MiniCPM-V interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from MoonDream vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_moondream_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_moondream_with_memory.html)  
**How MoonDream interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from DeepSeek VL2 vs crowdsourcing results](figures/scatter_plot_deepseek-vl2_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/scatter_plot_deepseek-vl2_with_memory.html)  
**How DeepSeek VL2 interprets AV scenes vs how people responded – with memory context**

---

[![Response from all LLMs vs crowdsourcing results](figures/merged_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/merged_with_memory.html)  
**How all LLMs compare collectively to human responses – with memory context**

---

[![Correlation Matrix](figures/spearman_correlation_matrix_with_memory.png)](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Shaadalam9/llms-av-crowdsourced/blob/main/figures/spearman_correlation_matrix_with_memory.html)  
**Correlation matrix of all models' responses compared to human data – with memory context**


## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
